## Clustering of Bank Customers using LSTM-based encoder-decoder and Dynamic Time Warping


### Abstract:
Clustering is an unsupervised data mining technique that can be employed to segment customers. The efficient clustering of customers enables banks to design and make offers based on the features of the target customers. The present study aims to cluster bank customers by an encoder-decoder network and the dynamic time warping (DTW) method. Once the deep neural network had been trained by customer transaction data, a feature vector of each customer was automatically extracted by the encoder. Long short-term memory (LSTM) deep networks were employed since bank transactions are time-series data in nature. Moreover, the distance of pairs of transaction amount sequences was obtained using DTW and stored in a matrix with a length as large as the number of customers. By combining the features obtained from this matrix, encoder-decoder network, and demographic data (e.g. age and gender), a multi-dimensional feature vector was extracted for each customer. The feature vector was introduced as input to different clustering algorithms, comparing the results. The contributions of the present work include automatic feature extraction, chronological transaction importance of features, model flexibility to customer transaction amounts, feature number adjustment, and a hybrid clustering approach. It was found that the clusters obtained from the hybrid approach were more significant than those derived from individual clustering techniques. The neural network layers had a strong effect on the clusters, and the hybrid GRU-LSTM approach yielded the most optimal results. Also, a high network error would not necessarily worsen clustering performance.

* Keywords: Customer clustering, Time-series clustering, LSTM encoder-decoder, Dynamic time warping *